- 1 - Transcribed by https://otter.ai
Bitbucket
SPEAKERS
Ford Versypt, Ashlee
Ford Versypt, Ashlee 00:01
Hi, in this video, I'm covering an example of using Bitbucket, or hosting an online git repository. So git is a set of commands for version control or tracking changes of computer files. I like to think about it as a conceptual blend between Dropbox and Google Drive, and track changes in Microsoft Word. This just applied to all of your files. So you can share with other people that you can also see the evolution of a project or a file over time and monitor all of the changes but also go back to all of the historic changes. Repository is a word that just refers to this online file folders that's hosted hosted in a cloud based platform such as GitHub or Bitbucket, we use bit bucket because it has free unlimited private repositories as soon as your account is registered within the.edu email address. So this is an example repository of mine that bitbucket.org slash Ashley FV slash che class fa 19. And this was a publicly shared repository. If we open a git bash window, which I can do in a couple ways, I could go to my window and start git bash there. Alternatively, I can be in a file directory. And this works on a PC. You can right click on a file folder and say open git bash here. And that will start you in the folder where you're at. So I can look in git and do a couple things to analyze this directory. But I see that here if I open this folder, I have exactly the same structure. I had a few extra files that were also included that are not shown here. But the same three folders and so a few things online that I don't have in this particular folder on my computer. So much like Dropbox where you can sync things online, but you have to actively choose to sync. Next, I want to show you that this is the main source code. So if I click the button for source, this is where it defaults to. The readme is whatever document that you have provided to give information. Usually, I like to give some instructions about how do I get these files to my computer? How do I do this the very first time? How do I do it subsequent times, sometimes as a reminder to myself and other times to students. The commits link tells me all of the history of times I have made any snapshots of these projects and posted on this Bitbucket repository and what I want to point out is that some of them, so I say in this one, they have some nicknames associated with each commit that tells me what I did that it has a timestamp, a date, and it has, who is the author of this was a solo project. If I click the actual commit message, I'm able to see what file or files are included here. And the green is what is new and the red is what is there from previous versions. I can view the differences this way where it's in line, I can also see a side by side difference, which is going to show me at each line in my code, where are there variations from previous so the red is what used to be there and the green is what is there now. And then I can see that nothing else was changed in the areas that are not highlighted. I don't frequently use the branches Pull Requests, pipelines, deployment, issues, downloads. So the source and the commit are the main features that I use regularly. And for basic use, those are appropriate. There's also these three little dots that you can manage your notifications. If you'd like to know when something new is posted here. You can also if you are the owner, you can share the repository and you can change the settings. So I gave explicit permission to specific people in my class last year. But this one, I believe, is also a public repository. So that's where
- 2 - Transcribed by https://otter.ai
you can add users here, I can search for myself, it's going to tell me that I'm already my own teammate. I already have permissions I don't need to have more permissions. And then the last thing I'll point out is that git works best on plain text. text documents. So MATLAB and Python script. So here I've got also laTex or HTML and markdown documents. So this README is written in markdown, you can you can edit online, and I usually do edit my README online because I can do the markdown features. There's some different kind of help information for markdown here and some formatting highlights, which is a nice editor. For the most part, I edit most of my files offline and post them here. And I have a PDF file here. And what you notice if you have a PDF is it will tell you that it is a binary file, you can actually display it here and track the changes. The same is true for Word documents, PowerPoint presentations, Excel spreadsheets, other things like that. And so they become large and you can't see the changes and you just end up needing to download them. And so I don't think that it's useful to Put those documents, those types of documents into the Bitbucket repositories on a frequent basis. Occasionally, maybe, but not frequent. So that concludes my brief overview for using bitbucket for hosting repositories for a solo project. You can also do this for shared projects where multiple people have permissions to read and write a single in a single folder and share with each other.
